All right so let's go ahead and identify the following graphs are concave up and concave down.
Remember we have a mnemonic for this which tells you but I'll let you finish the problem.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So remember we have a mnemonic for this.
So if you get the word concave remember that contains the word cave and the mnemonic says where does
the cave open up.
That's where you know where a function is concave up and concave down.
Look at where the cave is opening up.
So let's start with this one here.
If you look at this it's closed on the top but it's open on the bottom.
So it is actually opening down.
So it's concave down in this part right.
And then once you get to approximately here there's an inflection point meaning that concavity changes.
And from this point onward it looks like it opens up right.
It's open on the top here.
So it is concave up over here.
All right.
Let's go to the next one.
So the next one is kind of similar.
We start like this.
So there's a mountain meaning it opens down it's open down here so it's concave down in this part and
right around here the origin.
There's an inflection point.
So it switches concavity.
And as you can see from here on it actually opens upward so it's concave up.
And finally let's go to the third one.
So here we start with concave up because it's open on the top and then at some point here there's an
inflection point because we switch cavities.
Now we're actually pointing down.
So we open down at this point and again there's an inflection point right around here.
And then we keep going.
So we see that here it actually opens up.
So we'll put an arrow going up right here concave up and we have an inflection point around here.
Concavity changes and from here on it actually opens down.
Right.
So
opens down concave down.
And finally we have one more concavity changes around here.
So there is an inflection point around there.
We see that here the graph is opening up again.
So it's concave up and this part.
So let's do a legend.
Pointing up is concave up
pointing down is concave down
oh and I meant concave up for the arrow up and concave down for the arrow pointing down and of course
these points are inflection points.
And remember that at these inflection points these are points where the concavity changes.
So for example here we a concave down to about here where it became concave up.
So the concavity changed at this point.
Same for this point over here.
And the same for all of these points in the last graph.
Right.
That's pretty much it for this.
Pretty easy right.
Hopefully that wasn't too bad.
And now we know hard to identify.
And by now you should know how to identify when a graph is concave up or concave down.